The Team Morningstar DBRS is a leading provider of independent credit rating services and opinions for corporate and sovereign entities, financial institutions, and project and structured finance instruments globally. Rating more than 4,000 issuers and 60,000 securities, we are one of the top four credit rating agencies in the world and a market leader in Canada, the U.S., and Europe in multiple asset classes. Morningstar DBRS empowers investor success by bringing more transparency and a much-needed diversity of opinion in the credit rating industry. Our approach and size allow us to be nimble enough to respond to customers' needs in their local markets, but large enough to provide the necessary expertise and resources they require. Market innovators choose to work with us because of our agility, tech-forward approach, and exceptional customer service. The Role The Senior QA Automation Engineer will work closely with cross functional teams, Development teams, and other development teams to ensure a timely and high-quality delivery. Will have to coordinate and work with the members in a global team. We are looking for an individual who can apply discipline, create solid software products, and be accountable for deliverables. Position Location: Chicago, IL (we follow a hybrid policy requiring 4 days onsite) Responsibilities Define and establish the automation strategy, framework, and testing processes. Understand complex application architecture and design effective automation test frameworks. Build end-to-end web QA automation with Python for the back end, using GitHub Copilot where appropriate. Help establish AI standards and practices to support faster and more reliable adoption across the QA group. Analyze requirements, design test scenarios, and develop automation test cases. Own QA requirements and provide testing guidance to the broader technology team. Contribute as an individual contributor while also leading key QA initiatives. Lead and coordinate application enhancement and TechOps testing activities with technology and business teams. Participate actively in team ceremonies, including stand-ups, planning sessions, and retrospectives. Communicate regular project updates, including completed work, work in progress, next steps, risks, quality metrics, KPIs, and costs. Requirements 5+ years of experience in Quality Assurance and Testing, including 3+ years of hands-on automation experience. Strong understanding of test frameworks, Selenium WebDriver, test management tools, bug-tracking tools such as ALM, TestRail, and Jira, and Agile methodologies. Proven experience in automated testing of financial applications and web portals. Expertise in UI automation using Selenium WebDriver and automation framework development. Understanding of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), vector databases, and MCP development. Experience with Python, SQL/NoSQL databases, and AWS. Hands-on experience using GitHub Copilot as an AI assistant during software development. Proficiency in Java and JavaScript. Expertise in API testing, both manual and automated, using Rest Assured and ReadyAPI. Exposure to performance testing and security testing too Self-driven with a practical, professional approach to QA standards, procedures, and issue resolution. Ability to write use cases from product requirements, execute them, and report defects in a bug-tracking system. Demonstrated ability to lead, contribute independently, and help build a robust and flexible automation framework. Passion for mentoring and helping the QA community build automation skills. Current hands-on experience designing, building, and scaling cross-functional automation frameworks across back-end integration, database, and UI layers. Experience integrating test automation into CI/CD pipelines and supporting SDLC automation, including cloud-based test execution and reporting through tools such as ALM and Jira. Ability to improve quality and processes through automation strategy and technology selection based on architecture and process assessments. Strong SQL skills, including writing and understanding queries and stored procedures. Compensation And Benefits At Morningstar we believe people are at their best when they are at their healthiest. That’s why we champion your wellness through a wide range of programs that support all stages of your personal and professional life. Here are some examples of the offerings we provide: Financial Health 100% 401k match up to 6% of salary Stock Ownership Potential Company provided life insurance - 1x salary + commission Physical Health Comprehensive health benefits (medical/dental/vision) including potential premium discounts and company-provided HSA contributions (up to $500-$2,000 annually) for specific plans and coverages Additional medical Wellness Incentives - up to $300-$600 annual Company-provided long- and short-term disability insurance Emotional Health Trust-Based Time Off 6-week Paid Sabbatical Program 6-Week Paid Family Caregiving Leave Competitive 8-24 Week Paid Parental Leave Adoption Assistance Leadership Coaching & Formal Mentorship Opportunities Annual Flex Stipend - $1000 annually to cover personal education & well-being expenses Tuition Reimbursement Social Health Charitable Matching Gifts program Dollars for Doers volunteer program Paid volunteering days 15+ Employee Resource & Affinity Groups Total Cash Compensation Range $95,275.00-139,741.66 Inclusive of annual base salary and target incentive Morningstar's hybrid work environment gives you the opportunity to collaborate in-person each week as we've found that we're at our best when we're purposely together on a regular basis. In most of our locations, our hybrid work model is four days in-office each week. A range of other benefits are also available to enhance flexibility as needs change. No matter where you are, you'll have tools and resources to engage meaningfully with your global colleagues. R06_DBRSInc DBRS, Inc. - US Legal